Zoher Ghadyali  
SoftSys 2015  
Sprint 1

HFC Chapter 1 contains cards.c which is the original card-counting implementation in Head First C Chapter 1. It also contains my version of cards_refactored.c which uses three functions I wrote and has the same functionality of cards.c but with cleaner and more readable code. HFC Chapter 1 also contains the hello.c file used in the first chapter of ThinkOS. The hello.c file in this directory has been modified to store an integer that has a value of 5 from the original ThinkOS code and additional modifications are made in hello_modified.c and hello_modified2.c. In addition, these three .c files also have matching assembly language outputs that have been run with and without -O2 optimization using gcc. hello.c maps to hello.s without optimization and hello_optimized.s with optimization and the naming convention remains the same for the other two hello files.

HFC Chapter 2 contains the stack.c file provided by Allen Downey with comments that demonstrate what we now know the code is doing. This implementation of stack.c has a function foo() that returns a pointer to an array on the stack that is created and deleted within the scope of that function. The bar() function also creates an array on the stack and fills it with the values 0-4 and then wipes the stack outside the scope of the function. The main() calls foo() and bar() and the printf statements in all three functions show that each time an array is created on the stack, that array occurs at the same address. main() then tries to loop through the returned pointer variable from foo() which produces nonsense since the output of foo() is just a pointer to an array that no longer exists in the stack when main runs.

ThinkOS Chapter 3 contains the aspace.c file that Allen originally provides in that chapter of ThinkOS but I modified it to add another item to the heap, another item to the stack, and used malloc() to allocate 16 bytes of memory twice to see what the difference in the pointer variables are. This result of aspace.c is contained in ThinkOS_Ch3_ReadingQuestions.md and it shows that the heap starts at lower addresses and grows up, the stack starts at higher addresses and grows down, and that if you allocate 16 bytes of memory twice, the difference between the 2 addresses is 16.

HFC Chapter 2.5 contains the find_track.c file Allen originally provides but with the find_track_regex() function filled in that allows the user to input a pattern and then find the tracks that match that pattern. This implementation also extensively handles error catching, using the regerror() function to print to the user any errors that occur when interpreting the pattern provided by the user and then searching all of the tracks for that pattern and printing out any that match.

HFC Chapter 3 contains my implementation of the UNIX command tee in tee.c. This function takes the stdin and puts it into files the user specifies when they call tee. This function also allows for the user to raise a -a flag that appends instead of overwriting the files the user wants the stdin put into.